## When previous medication history is not avaliable.

I'd like to go over your medications. Do you have a list or pill bottles with you?

No, they're at home.

In that case can you tell me what medications you take?

Sure, I take high blood pressure medicine, 2 of those, lisinopril and htz, and diabetes pills, and the doctors put me on a blood thinner, about 6 months ago when I had my heart attack, and then I take a cholesterol medicine at night I think that's it.

Ok, let me ask you about those. You mentioned htz. Do you mean hctz? We also call that hydrochlorothiazide.

Yeah that's it, I can't remember that long name.

Ok well, how much of that do you take?

It's 12-something. It's half a 25.

Ok. Well, how about the lisinopril, do you know the strength of that one?

No, it's been a long time, and I don't pay attention.

Would it be okay if I call your pharmacy to check on the dose?

Sure, I get it at RX-Express on Highway 90.

Ok, I'll give them a call after we're done talking. You mentioned diabetes pills, how many different ones do you take?

Oh, there's just one.

What's that called?

That's metformin. I take it in the morning and in the evenings.

Can you tell me how much you take at each time?

Two pills in the morning and two pills in the evening.

I don't suppose you know the strength, do you?

I think it's 500 mg.

Ok. The next thing you mentioned was a blood thinner. Can you tell me the name of that?

It starts with a C but I can't think of the name of it.

Is it coumadin?

I'm not sure.

Well, do you get your blood tested every few weeks to see how thin it is?

No, I don't do that.

Huh. Is the medicine clopidogrel?

Yeah, that's it.

Yeah well, that only comes in one dose, 75 milligrams. You mentioned a medicine for cholesterol, which one is that?

It's something-statin. My doctor just switched that one. She said that my cholesterol wasn't under control and she wanted me to take a stronger one. It's one that just went generic.

Could it be atorvastatin?

Yes, that's it. I knew it started with an A. It's 10 milligrams.

Okay. So far here's what I've got: htcz, half a 25 milligram tab, lisinopril, I'll check the dose with your pharmacy, metformin, 500 milligrams, 2 pills in the morning and 2 in the evening, clopidogrel, 75 mg, and atorvastatin, 10 mg at night. Let me ask you to be sure, when during the day do you take the htcz, lisinopril, and clopidogrel?

I take all of those in the morning.

Do you take any other medications?

Not that I can think of, unless you count the antibiotic.

Sure, tell me about that. 

Well, they gave me cipro for my bladder a couple weeks ago, and told me to take it for three days, twice a day.

Okay, anything else?

No, I think that's it.

Let me run through a few other things just to be sure.

I saw in the nurse's notes that you had asthma. Do you take anything for that?

Yeah, I have an inhaler. I use it a couple times a day. It's a steroid spray but I can't think of the name of it. And, I have albuterol, but I don't need to take that very often.

Do you take any other medications from time to time, only when you feel like you need them?

Yeah, I take ibuprofen when my back hurts and they gave me those little nitro tablets but I don't need to take those.

How often have you needed to take the ibuprofen?

For the last week, two to three times a day.

And what's the strength?

400 milligrams and I take a couple at a time.

Ok. Any other medications you take only when you need it? Like any other medications for headaches, allergies, or to help you fall asleep?

No.

Do you take any medications that you can take off the shelf without a perscription?

Well, I get my baby aspirin from the warehouse store.

Ok. Anything else you get from there?

Yeah, I get fish oil from there and I take 1 gram a day.

Anything else? Any other nutritional supplements, vitamins, or herbals?

No, I think that's it.

So, let me review again. We've got htcz, lisinopril, metformin, clopidogrel, and atorvastatin. We've got a steroid inhaler that you use twice a day, and albuterol only when you need it. You've been on cipro for the last couple of days, you take ibuprofin as needed for back pain, and lately you've been taking 800 milligrams two or three times a day. You have nitroglycerin tablets but fortunately don't need to take them, and you take fish oil every day. Does that cover it?

Yes, that's a lot isn't it.

Yes, it is a lot. I know I'd have trouble keeping up with that many medicines. I'd probably miss doses here and there and forget to refill my medicines on time. Tell me, in the last week, how many days have you missed a dose for one of your medicines?

