## When previous medication history is avaliable.

I'd like to go over your medications with you to make sure we have a correct list.

I do have previous record of your medication list, but we may have information that's out of date.

Could you tell me your medication, their strength, and when you take them and I'll check them off my list as we go.

In the morning when I wake up I take omeprazol 20 milligrams and then there's sertraline 100mg and there's synthroid and a blood pressure medication but i'm blanking on the name

Ok I've got the omeprazol here and the sertraline. Your medication list says you take the sertraline at night.

Well I did at first but I was having trouble sleeping so my doctor told me to take it in the morning instead and that helped out a lot.

Ok good. About the syntrhoid, what dose are you taking?

I don't know. It's a hundred-something.

Your list says 112 micrograms. Does that sound right?

Yes, that sounds right.

Has anyone changed the dose of that medication recently?

Oh no, I've been on that medication for a couple of years.

Ok so what's the name of that blood pressure medication?

I really can't remember.

I have amlodipine on your list. Does that sound correct?

Yes, that's it.

5 milligrams?

Yes.

Ok so we've confirmed your omeprazol, sertraline, and amlodipine. Is there anything else that you take?

Isn't that it?

Well, actually I have a couple more things on your list here. Do you take simvastatin? It's a medication for cholesterol.

No, but I used to. I was having muscle aches so my doctor switched me to something else, and it starts with a P.

Pravastatin?

Yes, that's it.

Do you know the milligram dose?

Yes, 20. It was the same as the simvastatin.

Ok, I also have trazodone on your list.

What's that?

It's a medication that some people take for depression, or to help them sleep.

Ok, that must be the medicine that they gave me when I had trouble sleeping, but I don't take that anymore. Changing the sertraline to the morning did the trick.

Ok, I'll scratch the trazodone off your list. Do you take any other medicine?

Not that I can think of. 

Has anyone prescribed you anything new in the last few months?

No.

Do you take anything over the counter, such as herbs, vitamins, supplements.

Does cinnamon count?

Cinnamon does count. How much do you take?

I take 2 capsules a day.

Anything else?

No, that's it.

Great, we'll update your medication list and I'll give you a copy to keep.